thank you so much good morning everyone
greetings from amsterdam it's a pleasure
to be here with you all
uh by means of introduction i'm vidya
peters i lead the marketing organization
here at marketa i'm also currently the
interim chief product officer and prior
to this i led the revenue organization
for a few months earlier this year
before i helped take the company public
on nasdaq in june of this year so very
excited to be here with you all and
share some of my learnings at marquetta
but also some of the learnings i bring
from my prior roles prior to marquetta i
was the chief marketing officer at
mulesoft i was there for a little over
four years helped take them public and
then help them subsequently be acquired
by salesforce so very excited to be with
you here today at saskrow one of my
favorite conferences and share with you
some of
my learnings my mistakes that i have
learned along the way leading marketing
so that you can take advantage of that
and get you some of those results faster
than i did
so the topic for today is why intent is
the new lead
and let's dive right in what do we mean
by intent
intent based marketing in my words is
engaging prospects
before they actually have the
decision to buy so it's when they
demonstrate the interest in your
solution
versus after they submit an inquiry to
you or a sign up to you on your website
so the reason i bring this up is when i
started my career in marketing we always
thought about marketing and to prospects
and really thinking about uh
focusing on the entire experience of
bringing them to your website and then
optimizing that to sign up and then you
know convert conversion from there on
and i think the the game has changed so
much over the last few years and now the
name of the game is really intent which
is do you have incredible technologies
that tell you when your prospects are
even thinking or considering a solution
in your space and that's where i believe
marketing sweet spots should be today
which is you need to engage prospects
when they are even considering a
solution so that you can ensure that
your company is top of mind when they
start to think about the shopify process
so the old form of marketing was
bring people to your website and wait
for them to sign up and when they sign
up you turn on the bazooka of all of the
engagement tools in your arsenal
and today it's really about reaching
prospects where they show intent because
that intent may be very far from your
website it may be
significantly before they even know your
company's name so where does that happen
and how do we know when prospects are
actually showing intent
here are a few ways so intent shows up
in many different forms in many
different channels and here are a few
examples
they could be competitive sources which
is who is researching your competitors
because you know if they're researching
your competitors they're interested in a
solution that your company probably can
solve better
who is dissatisfied with their current
solution so examples of this are
who is currently
facing a backlash because the competing
product that they're using didn't work
out maybe they're facing fines or
regulations or issues or perhaps they
just tweeted their dissatisfaction with
a competing product that is a great
indication of intent that they are ready
to look for a new solution
keywords who is researching keywords in
your space who is actually searching
into google and and talking about
finding a solution for a problem that
your product is the answer for and are
those search volumes spiking or
declining bombora is a great tool that
does this it's actually a free tool for
a basic set of keywords that you can go
sign up for right now i'm a huge fan of
the tool
and
what you can do is sign up for alerts
that you get on a specific keywords for
your industry so for example for marketa
i want to ensure that if certain
companies are searching for card issuing
and processing that they show up on my
radar and then i get this email actually
every monday morning and our team
looks at these
alerts and then looks at wow those are
companies that are actually exhibiting
an increase in intent for card issuing
products we need to be reaching out to
them before they actually reach out to a
competitor or make up their minds
building an in-house solution when they
really don't have to
technographic so you can look at who's
owning competitive technologies are they
hiring for roles with experience using
that technology you can see the job uh
jobs that are open on their website and
and really scan and do searches based on
what are the skills that they're looking
to hire for and another source is do
they work with a partner that integrates
with your technology that may be a great
inroad into this prospect
and last but not least social it's all
about the conversations your prospects
are having in the public sphere have
they been speaking about your solution
space space on social have they been
publishing blog posts or speaking at
events
about problems that they're currently
experiencing that you can take advantage
of another great source especially if
your prospects are public companies is
to look at their earnings calls reports
their 10ks their filings and see if
they're speaking about problems that
your product is very well positioned to
serve that tends to be another great
source of information to know if your
prospect has the intent for the solution
that your company offers
so that's great you know now what intent
data is you know where to find it
but that is not enough that is just the
tip of the iceberg it's so important to
create an end-to-end strategy for the
use of intent data which is how do you
intend to now engage with that prospect
how are you going to position your
product your platform better than the
competing solutions will how will you
partner with sales to make that an
effective engagement strategy
how will you know whether this is
working so what are the metrics and i'm
a big proponent of establishing metrics
of measurement in advance of your
marketing campaign so what a lot of
marketers make the mistake of doing is
they launch their campaign they say hey
we're really going to go after
intent-based data for prospects and they
wait for all of the results to come back
in and they package it up and say okay
what are the metrics that come out of
this data that tell the most favorable
story of the campaign unfortunately it
may help you in the short term it'll
make your campaign look great but it
really doesn't help you in the long run
when those numbers don't pay out so i'm
a big proponent of setting the metrics
of success before you launch the
campaign and then measure the impact of
whether your intent data tactics are
really working
and then of course verifying the
validity of those intense signals and
insights you're getting
acting on those signals you know in a
very coordinated
multi-touch campaign across sales and
marketing and ensuring that you continue
to refine those intent keywords so for
example i may think that card issuing
and processing is a great intent a key
keyword for my business but as i look at
the data it may turn out that actually
b2b payments is a better indicator
because i find that customers who are
searching for that
have a better product market fit for
what i offer for what market offers so
it's all about using the data to
continue to refine your end-to-end
strategy as it relates to intent data
and this engagement requires very close
collaboration with the sales
organization with the revenue
organization because it's part sales and
for customer success and this is what
the life cycle may look like so
you're probably sitting there and
thinking wow this is great data i know
where to look for it i know the metrics
to put in place and it's going to be a
straight line to success and and the
reality is it's going to be much more of
an experience that has its peaks and
valleys you'll identify the intent you
may have some marketing outreach so
today we take all of our companies and
then we feed them into marketing
campaigns where we reach out to them
via social or email
and then they may not pay off you may
get responses from some and not from
others so how do you ensure then that
you take the next set of data which is
based on responses and engagement and
partner with your sales team for sdr
outreach now the sdr may get traction
with some accounts then the conversation
may stall again and you may brainstorm
with sales to say actually let's let's
bring some of these prospects into a
webinar or an event perhaps we're going
to be a disaster and this is a great
place to have a live conversation with
them
and so constantly partnering with your
sales team is critical because it's no
longer a case of passing the baton to
the sales team you you don't go any more
here's a lead and i will see you later
i'm going back to fish for some more
it's really a game of soccer where
you're going back and forth and mark
thinks job is not done until the deal is
closed and it's still not done then
because then the question becomes how do
you expand those relationships and how
do you how do you leverage those
relationships to then open up new
connections so it's a constant flywheel
between marketing and sales until you
are hitting the ultimate growth goals of
the company
so you may be thinking well this is
great we have the intent data we're
partnering with sales and we're pumping
as much money uh into our campaigns as
possible so this is where i'm going to
ask you to be cautious and slow down
because that's very much the old form of
marketing more spending more campaigns
more head count it's more and more and
more and the most beautiful part about
marketing what has me really excited is
how much it has evolved in the last
two to three years
today we have over 8 000 technologies
that marketers have access to and it's
growing every year
this is the martech landscape and it
just blows my mind for everything from
advertising and promotions to data
management to account based marketing
there were only 900 solutions in this
space in 2014 and that has grown by 10x
and so there is just a wealth of tools
and opportunities here for you to tap
into and it's constantly evolving which
is why i always say that market the
marketing that i did 10 years ago is
nothing like the marketing i do today
because it's become much more of a
technology game and keeping on top of
the latest technologies
is to your advantage because you will
have advan you will have the advantage
of all of the tools in your arsenal that
help you be much more efficient with
your dollars much smarter with your
campaigns and at the end of the day much
more effective at reaching your
prospects
in the past there's been some curiosity
because you know there's 8 000 tools
there i've been asked this question of
well what did you choose and where are
you at marquetta and so i wanted to just
share with you a snapshot of the
marketing technology stack that we have
built here at marquetta and we've built
it all across the funnel all the way
from top of the funnel for brand
awareness and to manage our pr
down to abm seo sem
and all the way to event marketing and
web tools and built on the foundation of
salesforce and hubspot so this is a
great cheat sheet you don't have to
worry about taking notes here i believe
sastra will make these slides available
to you but also know that this is not a
static picture this is a point in time
and my fabulous marketing team is always
assessing new tools that have entered
the market that are able to help us be
more effective more efficient and so
this is a very quickly evolving space so
take this as a point in time of what we
are currently using in marquetta and of
course the answers may be different for
you and the answers may be different six
to 12 months from now
i wanted to spend a little bit of time
on measurements because we talked a lot
about
intent and running your campaigns
effectively we talked about the use of
marketing technology tools across the
entire funnel for marketing but none of
this matters if you're not measuring the
effectiveness of your work because only
when you measure will you be able to
know whether your marketing is actually
reaching those prospects and delivering
bottom line impact for the business and
so i thought i'd share with you a little
bit of my cheat sheet from metrics that
we look at end to end so that you can be
as effective as possible with your
intent-based marketing
so here at marketo we measure all of our
marketing tactics for right from top of
the funnel to the bottom of the funnel
from pr and brand to web demand gem
product marketing developer marketing
and then of course
the efficiency of our marketing spend
end to end and the reason i particularly
speak about marketing efficiency is
because it's very easy to spend a ton of
money on all of these
and buy all the tools i can get put all
the dollars i can across every marketing
campaign and win
along every one of these metrics
but marketing efficiency keeps me honest
at the end of the day and ensures that
i'm getting the maximum return for every
dollar i'm spending so it's a great way
to keep checks and balances within your
own marketing funnel so looking a little
bit closely what are the metrics within
each one of these areas
here are the top three or four metrics i
use in each functional area of marketing
and i'll double click into each one of
these
for a few minutes
so
right for
pr and brand i start with looking at
coverage in all of the media outlets we
look at total coverage so how many
mentions our company has received in
that quarter or that year
and and then the quality of that
coverage so what percentage of that was
tier one business coverage and by tier
one we think of the wall street journal
or fortune or the outlets that are most
relevant to you in your space
and we measure the quality of the
coverage which is was it just a mention
or were we actually in the title or the
subtitle or a prominent portion of that
article
and what part of that was proactively
secured we want to ensure that we are
also driving our own fate as it results
in pr we're driving the conversation and
so
[Music]
you know coverage that is not
proactively secured is fantastic but we
also want to drive it to the specific pr
initiatives that we're leading
and we take all of that which are those
absolute numbers and we measure share
voice so we measure the coverage that we
got relative to our competitors and we
also measure our coverage relative to
peers and peers are those companies at a
similar size and stage as ours that we
really admire and look up to
and
want to achieve their level of presence
and leadership in the market
in addition to that to measure brand we
measure the direct traffic to the home
page the monthly unique traffic
and ensure that is growing uh at a much
faster pace than our revenue this is the
tip of the sphere in terms of leading
indicator and we want to ensure that our
direct traffic is not trailing the
business but is leaving the business
when we look at web kpis we start with
traffic and the number of users and
sessions and page views
and then we measure their engagement did
they stay on our site or do they bounce
and when they stayed how many pages did
they engage with us on and how much time
did they spend per page and ultimately
did they convert which is did they
share their information with us in in
return to read an asset or download
information or just want to speak to
somebody and reach out to them to learn
more about our platform
from a demean generation perspective of
course we measure the marketing
qualified leads that's the most commonly
used metric in fact most marketers
believe that's the only metric that you
should measure but i believe that's just
one among many
but mql is of course very important but
then we also ensure that we measure what
portion of our mqls
convert to the either the sales
accepted lead or sales qualified lead
whatever is appropriate in your funnel
and ensuring that
we are also measuring the number of
opportunities that we help mature so did
we how much of the pipeline did we help
create how much of the pipeline did we
help influence by ensuring that we're
looking at opportunities end-to-end our
job doesn't end when we just create the
opportunity but it continues all the way
until the deal is closed and then again
ensuring that we help expand those deals
and help propagate new deals as a result
of that through a great referral program
product marketing kpis now many people
think that product marketing is very
difficult to measure but product
marketing is the engine for content
creation particularly our technical
content and it's great to see how that
content is being downloaded and engaged
with and how it's affecting pipeline we
also love to measure how our product
marketing efforts are resulting in the
adoption of new products
both in terms of number of customers on
those products and also the revenue
those products generate
and developer marketing kpis we measure
that by how big our developer community
is the activity and engagement of those
developers are they engaging in our
forums in our social events in our
virtual meetups and ultimately the
conversion of trials if you have that
for developers or as we do in marketa
really ensuring that our developers are
successfully able to launch new products
in our sandbox
so here are my top four takeaways for
the session so
i will leave you with number one intent
is the new lead it's not about the lead
form anymore it's about capturing that
customer when they exhibit the first
intent wherever that may be wherever
that channel may be
second engagement requires close
collaboration with sales it's it's a
soccer game where you're going to go
back and forth along the entirety of the
lifeline of that opportunity
until the deal closes and after that
when the deal continues to expand and
grow
building a strong technology stack is
essential to be effective today it's not
just about how big your marketing budget
is it's about how much further you can
help your marketing budget go because of
the smart technologies you're taking
advantage of
and last but not least how you
effectively and objectively measure your
marketing end to end so that you can
have a true north of what is working and
what's not and can refine your marketing
initiative to best be in service to the
business
so with that i will stop sharing my
screen and i am open to take questions
i have a couple of questions that have
come in here so the first question is
can you please repeat the name of the
tool that sends alerts
it's bamboora b-a-n-b-o-r-a
you can sign up for free for a certain
number of words it's also used by
uh very
strong abm tools in the market so
demandbase has babora already wrapped
into it engagio has been more wrapped
into it and then you get access to more
keywords that you can use as a part of
it but just go on bambora.com and check
it out i i'm a huge fan of them i have
no
investment stake or or anything it's
just uh been a wonderful tool that we
have benefit from marketing and i'd love
to see them succeed
what are some common mistakes you see
startups make when building out a
marketing technology stack for the first
time
there are a few common mistakes i see
the first being that
marketers tend to
go for the oldest or the most
established marketing technologies and i
caution you against this because the
whole space is evolving so quickly
that
anything that was even built 10 years
ago may be considered legacy technology
now there may be up and coming
technology that is much smarter and is
built on modern platforms that help you
be much more nimble and get you much
more real real-time insights than some
of the older technologies so don't just
pay attention to market share or how
large they are but really do your
research on
endless ratings coverage that you see
for the technologies meet with as many
vendors as you can what i often like to
do is particularly for upward company up
and coming technologies i ask for a
short trial a 15 or 30 day trial where
we can play around with with their
product and actually see how it works
and that gives us better confidence in
making that decision so don't feel like
you have to make
write a check for you know tens of
thousands of dollars without actually
trying out the tech first so that's one
common mistake a second common mistake
that i see is that people build their
marketing technology stack and feel like
their job is done and
they will just put it to the side and
then go back and focus on their
campaigns
having a marketing technology stack is
like having a living and breathing
organism you are changing the company is
changing your needs are changing and so
it's so important that you are
evaluating your your tech stack on an
annual basis if not more often and also
assessing newer players as they're
coming onto the market and always
ensuring that you are taking advantage
of the latest and the greatest that's
available in the market so again
don't just rest and let it be but keep
your eye on the pulse of what else is
available in the market and take
advantage of it and third is tying
metrics to your technology stack very
often people will
invest a tech top invest in a technology
stack and not really know how it's
performing so ensure that you have
metrics tied to each one of your
investments and you're asking the hard
questions of is paying off at the level
i expected it to in very objective terms
so those are a few common mistakes
and another question what are some tips
for companies that are investing in pr
for the first time
i love pr as a tool it is so important
for
growing earlier stage companies because
it really helps you create a presence
and a name in the market and my advice
if you're just starting to dabble in pr
at the company is
try not to do it building an in-house
team from the get-go and the reason is
is that it takes a minimum number of
people it takes certain network reach
for pr to be effective so if you're just
starting out
reach out to an agency uh take take
advantage of the tremendous number of
agencies that are out in the pr space
market in our earlier days used bospar
communication we really liked them in
our early stages now we use icr huge
fans of icr for our more mature stage
and what i like about working with
agencies is a few things
they have incredible
network reach and access
that is very hard for you to hire and
bring in-house with say one fte now at a
later stage when you build and scale
your company to a much more mature stage
you may be able to build a pr team with
say three or four pr members and that's
a great time to have it all in house but
if you're just starting out in pr
partner with a great agency
they bring you access they also bring
you opportunities that you may not have
access to
where
the pr agency may be having
conversations with the networks on a set
of different topics but actually find an
opportunity that your company is better
suited for that's very hard to find when
you're doing it all in-house and last
but not least of course they've seen the
breadth of use cases they have the
breadth of experience so they can advise
you
the one caution i will say is do not
outsource all of your pr to the agency
so i've also seen companies make this
mistake where they go well that's great
agencies are wonderful and they will run
my pr strategy for me and they simply
won't you need to own your pr strategy
you need to be very clear on what you're
looking to achieve
nobody understands your company and your
platform better than you and so you need
to be in the driver's seat
asking the agency to help execute on
that strategy and vision and holding
them accountable to those outcomes
that's an important part so the work is
not outsourced it's a partnership and i
think that's what people often forget
when they start to work with the pr
agency so work with an agency but don't
forget your responsibility in that
partnership it's the only way it can be
successful
any thoughts on how website marketing
will evolve in the next five years
absolutely i think that email will be
completely redundant this whole idea of
a database and having outreach will be a
very archaic
method i also believe data privacy will
start to take much more of a forefront
and people will have as we're already
seeing just enormous fatigue with email
so what that means then is that the web
channel will have to become much more
intelligent much more predictive i could
see a situation where every
visitor on your website as they're
coming in will have a score based on
their propensity for interest in your
product and you can offer them a
tailored experience based on that we are
nowhere near that but that's where i
believe the future will be because
there's very little patience now for
push style marketing which is i'm going
to push you a bunch of messages and hope
that eventually i will harass you to
succumb into some action and i really
believe we'll move to a pool form of
marketing where you arrive on the
website and i'm able to serve you a
tailored experience that then entices
you to become
to want to learn more and become
interested in what i have to offer and
so the marketing technology landscape
here continues to evolve it's grown by
10x in six years and i think there's
more to come there there will be some
level of consolidation but we'll
continue to see much more innovative
products
as it relates to web marketing
how do you see measurement to better
align marketing with sales
this is a very important area because i
think that
the relationship between marketing and
sales is very well due for an overhaul
and
i think a lot of marketers make the
mistake of having a marketing strategy
and starting with that and i believe the
work starts with a go to market strategy
that marketing and sales write together
which is who are you going after in the
market what is the best way to reach
them and how do you partner together
across sales and marketing to make that
happen and so it's it's much more of a
closely aligned partnership
and once you have that aligned go to
market strategy i'm a big believer in
shared metrics which is it's not
marketing metrics and sales metrics it's
one set of metrics that you both are
accountable for and you may have
different leading indicators that ladder
up to those so as an example your end
metrics may very well be the new revenue
that you have to deliver for the year or
the add-on revenue that you have to
deliver for the year that that could be
the shared set of metrics
that you own along with sales and
marketing but the leading metrics for
marketing could be a series of marketing
source opportunities marketing
influenced opportunities and a different
one set of ones for sales but the idea
being is that they built ladder into a
common
share of success metrics so
one unified go to market strategy
upfront one unified set of metrics
different methods and initiatives
laddering up to those and different
leading metrics leading up to those
would be my answer on that
which places does marketer run abm
advertising campaigns and which sites
today do you find it the most efficient
source of ad source leads this is a
wonderful question because
the sources of ad source leads
unfortunately are few and far between it
seems to be
we are in a land of monopolies and um
the cost of google sourced
leads is only skyrocketing because
they're able to there's uh pretty much
the lion's share of the traffic lies on
google we're able to also source some
leads on bing but the
proportion of traffic there is much
lower as for our abm advertising we're
running them in our social channels we
use terminus we use engagio and we run
it on
at
linkedin and twitter and some of the
social channels but we also do targeted
outbound which starts with a very
defined list of target accounts that
we're going after and we partner with
our sdr team to reach those prospects
through multiple channels inviting them
to our webinars inviting them to our
events
now
it is all about experimentation with all
of these channels because
with some campaigns we find that some
channels are a lot more expensive and
when we initially started abm and
marketer we found linkedin to be a very
expensive channel in terms of the return
that we saw but since then we've been
able to become more efficient
so it's really all about tweaking your
marketing campaigns to be more effective
with that channel so
my advice on this would be the channels
are few and far between but the
number of uh variations you can try with
marketing campaigns and
the universe of
personas that you can go after on your
target accounts is something that you
can also modify the messaging creative
is what you can modify and so the key
there is experimentation and really
finding what's right for your business
and right for
the results that you're looking for
are there any tech offerings in
particular that you recommend for
developer relations
so um we have been using the chorus
platform to build our developer
community we've been thrilled with that
i also i have a lot of old mulesoft
friends at bevy and they're great uh
they offer a great platform for events
for developer meetups there's a ton of
new and exciting technologies in the
developer community space
and you should definitely take advantage
of that research all of the different
options there i'm sure the martech
landscape slide that i have would have a
whole set on developer tools and
community technologies there the
important part with developer community
though is
is not necessarily the tool but it's
really about how you're going to make it
valuable for developers because
developers hate any form of marketing so
please don't market to your developers
the most valuable thing you can do to
build a developer community is bring
like-minded developers together
help them connect with each other and
you mostly stay out of the way
and i say this in in the most
magnanimous way possible which is don't
try to sell them content don't try to
sell them your product help them be
successful help answer their questions
give them resources
but really don't market to them and i
think developers trust only other
developers they
you know want to ensure other developers
are successful and so just create the
space for them to be able to do that to
have those conversations and those are i
think the much more important
ingredients for creating a great
developer community
how can uh product marketers capture
intent
so
it's very similar to how we all capture
intent which is then think about your
upcoming product and what is the problem
in solving for and who would be the
right persona
that you think would be suited for this
product put those together and start to
track the intent for those so for
example marketo recently came out with a
credit product then the intent words
would be
credit card processing and uh the
personas would be a head of payments at
a leading company in our target account
list so we would bring those ingredients
together to then capture intent and then
to have a campaign that's very suited
for the launch of our credit product for
our product marketing team
so
i think the the questions are
very fundamental to how you set up the
intent based lead ask those questions
find the appropriate channels and use
that as a basis to to run your campaign
is pr the top three priorities for an
early stage startup company
i think this would depend on how
you define early stage for your startup
but i believe it is and the reason is is
pr creates an incredible halo effect for
the whole company and there are
companies that i've seen that haven't
even g8 their product yet and they you
know i've been advising them and they
would say well i'm not sure where i
should invest yet and i would say well
if your product is not ga you're not
going to generate demand for it just yet
you have your pipeline of beta customers
you focus on that and it's not really
about product marketing because that's
much further than the funnel so then my
advice would be at that early stage
really invest in pr because the beauty
of pr is that it helps you with
recruiting it helps you with fundraising
and it helps you with creating awareness
with prospects in the market so it helps
with multiple forms of brand awareness
and it's definitely one of the top
levels i would recommend
for an early stage company now the
caveat i would say is that if you're so
early stage that your seed level please
don't invest in pr it tends to be
expensive and at the seed stage you're
still trying to determine who your
product is for what the product does so
at that point i would invest all your
dollars really in the product and
development aspect of the business
what should we be considering when
deploying intense signal data for
eu-based accounts given privacy
regulations in the market
this is an excellent question and
one of the the ways we've tried to do it
is to use information that's in the
public sphere so if you go back and
refer to my slide on where you can
capture intent there are many sources
that are still in the public sphere and
available to you to capture intent so
one of them is
in social channels it could be in the pr
of the company themselves it could be in
their earnings reports in their 10k
filings
those are great ways to capture intent
also you may still be able to access
databases
where you can capture which companies
are using your competitor offerings i i
believe i mean i live in amsterdam and i
i still get a ton of outreach of
companies selling you know databases of
customers who are using competing
solutions so that may still be a good
source of information for you to figure
out you know the intent data in europe
with the new privacy laws
any tips for a new hire auditing a
company's current marketing landscape
let me read that question again any tips
for a new hire auditing a company's
current marketing landscape i'm not sure
i fully follow that question so if you
wouldn't mind
asking that in more detail i will be
happy to answer it are you curious about
are you trying to lay the understand the
marketing technology landscape of your
company or if you could just elaborate
i'd be happy to answer that
the next question is from ashish one of
the top pressing things for us is around
getting attention of c-level executives
especially in context of too many
companies trying to reach out
to these same executives
i think this is so important because uh
c-level engagement is is almost the gold
mine that everyone is trying to reach
and they have probably
the smallest
attention focus if you can imagine i i
will speak personally
since i'm now leading product and
marketing my
my first hour on a monday morning is
spent clearing my inbox because i get at
least 100 emails from various
technology providers providers various
solution providers trying to get my
interest and the truth is it's just too
much i cannot process that many inbound
interest emails so my ask would be this
is that people overestimate the
decision-making power of the c-level
executive
and here's why because when we talk
about decision-making for say marketing
technologies in the organization
i what i the way i approach is i lay out
the problem for my team i say here's the
issue i'm seeing for example we have a
ton of content on our website but it's
not getting consumed what is the issue
here and what technology can help us
address this
it's so important for me
that my directs are able to mobilize to
be able to understand the landscape in
that area to answer that question come
with recommendations
that they and the team are super excited
about i think it's a very outdated view
that we believe that c-level executives
wake up every morning assess every
technology write the check and hand it
over to their team it dies on the vine
it's it's almost maybe an outdated form
of leadership i believe where i'm never
going to saddle my team with a
technology that they are personally not
excited about that they don't believe is
going to deliver success for their
domain for the part of the business that
they own
so
my ask of you is this which is figure
out the real decision makers in the
business
i bet they're not always the c-level
executive they are a key influencer they
may be the people signing on on the
check at the end so they are important
to engage but maybe your first outreach
is to someone on their team that needs
to understand the solution at a more
meaningful level before they pull in the
c-level executive to engage on on the
actual purchase
how do you stay up to date on all the
new martech products coming out this is
a really good question because
i get
there's so much and it's changing so
quickly
what i like to do is actually do
a lot of third-party reading so while i
may not be able to take every call or
every email that comes into my mailbox
about a new marketing technology
what i do like to do is uh read up on a
lot of reports that are summarizing uh
the key marketing technologies there so
just most recently i was reading about
the abm landscape and i assure you this
is really important uh because it
changes dramatically every year so if
you read the abm landscape from 2016
it's drastically different from where it
is today
so
pick a major whether that's social or
abm
or
marketing automation technology and and
read from an unbiased third party
perspective read about the landscape
read the pros and cons and use that as a
thought starter i also love to come to
conferences like faster because this is
a great place to see some of those
technologies surfaced
and and learn more but i believe that
marketing now is
a learning um
craft where you have to keep up to date
with how quickly it's evolving and
changing and a big part of that is
keeping up to date and staying aware of
how quickly this landscape is changing
any tips for hiring marketing operations
roles
you know i always hire for
intellectual curiosity and people who
have the ability to be curious and learn
and want to have impact and move quickly
and so i've never
for these roles said well has this
person done marketing operations before
now if they have that's a tremendous
add-on but think about it if marketing
operations has grown by 10x in the last
five or six years you can imagine having
10 years of experience in marketing
operations is less relevant than maybe
some of the attributes that you need for
someone to be successful in this role
and so i'm most interested in someone
who wakes up every morning is curious
about technology partners really well
with the sales organization
is very numbers driven has an innate
curiosity to make things better to be
operationally more efficient and i
prefer just hiring for attributes
because those are always valuable no
matter what changes in the landscape
and i believe that may bring us to the
end of the questions
so
last call if there is anything more
all right well it's been such a pleasure
to be here with you all thanks for
taking the time to chat with me today
and i hope you have a fantastic saster
definitely one of my favorite
conferences and here's to a great week
thanks everyone
[Music]
you